## Electronic Communication Network


There are two main types of forex brokers:

Dealing Desks (DD)
No Dealing Desks (NDD).
Dealing Desk brokers are also called Market Makers.

No Dealing Desks can be further subdivided into:

Straight Through Processing (STP) and
Electronic Communication Network + Straight Through Processing (ECN+STP).

Forex brokers that operate through Dealing Desk (DD) brokers make money through spreads and providing liquidity to their clients. Also called “market makers,”


Dealing Desk brokers literally create a market for their clients, meaning they often take the other side of a clients trade.

Since market makers control the prices at which orders are filled, it also follows that there is very little risk for them to set FIXED spreads (you will understand why this is so much better later).

Also, clients of dealing desk brokers do not see the real interbank market rates. Don’t be scared though. The competition among brokers is so stiff that the rates offered by Dealing Desks brokers are close, if not the same, to the interbank rates.

Some brokers claim that they are true ECN brokers, but in reality, they merely have a Straight Through Processing system.

Forex brokers that have an STP system route the orders of their clients directly to their liquidity providers who have access to the interbank market.

NDD STP brokers usually have many liquidity providers, with each provider quoting its own bid and ask price.

True ECN forex brokers, on the other hand, allow the orders of their clients to interact with the orders of other participants in the ECN.

Participants could be banks, retail traders, hedge funds, and even other brokers. In essence, participants trade against each other by offering their best bid and ask prices.

ECNs also allow their clients to see the “Depth of Market.”

Depth of Market displays where the buy and sell orders of other market participants are. Because of the nature ECN, it is very difficult to slap on a fixed markup so ECN brokers usually get compensated through a small COMMISSION.

---

bucket shops - 
The name comes from brokers back in the day who used to put their clients’ phone-in orders on slips and then dropped them (the slips, not the clients) in a tiny bucket instead of actually executing them.




---

Market depth data is the comparison of all limit-based orders available from Forex broker’s clients and the spreads of their liquidity providers (banks, other brokerage companies etc.)

Market depth data will only be available if you trade with an ECN Forex broker.

There are two types of brokers:
- ECN
- Market Makers.
ECN brokers charge commissions. Market makers make money by taking positions against your trades and cashing on spreads.

ECN brokers are better simply because thesy are interested in your profits (more you gain, more commission you make for them). MM are good to start because they propose simple conditions like fixed spreads, very small starting deposit very low and micro lots. You need t understand that all your trades on this accounts will never reach real market and stay in house (do not believe if someone says opposite), but if you use reliable MM then it will be no problem. You need to be ready, that when you start to make profit with MM your trading conditions will become worst and worst, because you trade against broker. So, for profitable traders or traders with higher deposits there is the only way is to use ECN broker, but make sure you will choose true ECN broker, there are several indicators:

Spreads. Never ever there will be fixed spreads on ECN. Spreads is something which is not set by broker in real market it is just a difference between SELL and BUY price which is always floating and depends from the liquidity for the current moment.
Commissions. ECN brokers make profits from commission only! Do not believe if anyone say that it is ECN broker making profit from the spread
MarketDepth. Be very careful, and be noticed that there is only one MarketDepth way and explanation which is right: «Market depth by definition, shows the quantity of bids and asks on both sides of the market in volumes of liquidity. Its always in digits and the result of liquidity at a certain level being eaten up = 1 tick » , so in other words you will see how many LOTS for SELL and buy are available for the specific price, usually several prices (Level), MarketDepth can be different , 10 levels for example.
There is nothing to hedge if the broker is ECN. Recently some brokers trying to mislead people with fake sense of MarketDepth but you need to remember 1 thing only, in ECN system volume of SELL orders always equal for volume of BUY orders, ALWAYS! If someone say that it is ECN broker and they have more volume SELL or BUY orders it is not true or it is not ECN broker
Your limit orders will change a spread for all participants of ECN system.
These are simple tips for choosing true ECN broker, make own conclusions.
