Rollover - the procedure of moving open positions from one trading day to another.

At about 5 pm EST (time varies with some brokers) if you are holding an open position your account is either credited, or debited, an interest charge on the full size of your open positions, depending on your established margin and position in the market. Depending on the interest rate differential, you may pay or receive interest fees, also known as rollover fees.

This interest rate is called rollover, because it occurs when an open position from one value date (settlement date) is rolled over into the next value date. Rollover transactions are carried out automatically by your broker if you hold an open position past the change in value date. Behind the scenes, the settlement occurs in two business days. Thus, if it is Monday before 5PM currencies are trading for value on Wednesday. After 5PM on Monday the trade date becomes Tuesday and they are traded for value on Thursday.

Rollover applies to Positions Open past 5 PM EST
Rollovers are applied to open positions after 5 pm EST change in value date, or settlement date. They are NOT applied if you don’t carry your position over the change in value date; thus, if you open and close your trade before 5 pm you will never incur rollover charge or debit.

Wednesday carries a 3-day rollover
On 5PM EST on Wednesday the value date changes from Friday to Monday, a weekend rollover, which means a three day rollover (Saturday, Sunday, Monday), which means that the rollover costs/gains are going to be three times as much as any other day.



Why does this interest credit or debit occur?
Because when you are trading currencies, you are trading cash. When you go long on a currency, it is like holding a deposit at a bank, and you would expect to earn interest on your deposit, and when you go short on a currency, it is like borrowing, and you would expect to pay interest on the loan. The likeness becomes more complicated because with a currency pair, you are holding one currency with a positive balance (the currency you are long) and one with a negative balance (the currency you are short), and the difference between the interest rates of the two countries is called the interest-rate differential.

Whether you are credited or debited depends on two factors: 1) whether you are holding a long or short position; and 2) the interest rate differential between the two currencies in the pair you are trading.

Since every currency trade involves borrowing one currency to buy another, interest rollover charges are part of Forex trading. Interest is paid on the currency that is borrowed, and earned on the one that is bought. In effect, you earn or pay interest depending on the direction of your position. If you are buying a currency with a higher interest rate than the one you are borrowing, the net differential will be positive (i.e. AUD/USD) – and you will earn funds (be credited) as a result. If you are selling a currency with a higher interest rate than the one you are borrowing, the net differential will be negative, and you will end up paying (be debited) for that rollover. The Rollover costs/credits are based on your position size, with the larger the position, the larger the cost or gain to you.


---

“Cut-off time” (usually 5:00 pm EST), there is a daily rollover interest rate that a trader either pays or earns, depending on your established margin and position in the market.

Interest is PAID on the currency that is borrowed.

Interest is EARNED on the one that is bought.

If you are buying a currency with a higher interest rate than the one you are borrowing, then the net interest rate differential will be positive (i.e. USD/JPY) and you will earn interest as a result.

Conversely, if the interest rate differential is negative then you will have to pay.
